A Bitcoin Core 4 Full Node Wallet is
a Bitcoin wallet that fully validates transactions and blocks.
By downloading a full node,
you'll be acting as a node that accepts and validates
both transactions and blocks from the Bitcoin blockchain.
Now being a node is different than being a minor.
By downloading this wallet,
you're not participating in block mining,
instead you're only acting as a client that is continuously
downloading and validating the blockchain using your local computer.
So to download a full node wallet,
go to Bitcoin.org, which I've linked down below this video.
From there, scroll down to the section called "Get Started with Bitcoin."
This takes you to a page where you can select
a variety of ways to get started with Bitcoin.
Right now, let's click on "Choose Your Wallet."
From here, you can see a selection of wallets that you can
download and we'll be using Bitcoin Core.
From this menu, select the device and
operating system that you'll be using to install the software.
For me, I'll be downloading onto my Mac.
Here we have the option to install or to see the source code.
In this case, I'd like to install software.
Now before downloading, decide the location you'd like to store your wallet.
You can store this any where you like,
just make sure that you have the space available on your device.
Now Bitcoin Core can be quite a large file,
over 100 gigabytes, which can
easily overwhelm the space that you might have on your computer.
Now it is possible to reduce the space taken up either using
a technique known as pruning or by syncing to the test net or the reg net.
Alternatively, some people would download the wallet to an external hard drive.
This allows them to access the data without needing to worry that
the space on the computer will fill up as the blockchain continues to grow.
Once you've installed the wallet,
you'll see that your computer begins syncing to the network.
This is your computer taking the time to download the Bitcoin blockchain.
So as progress is made, you can see the number of blocks left,
when the last block was created,
the progress made toward downloading the entire network,
and finally how much time is left until you fully sync to the entire version of watching.
As I mentioned before, if you just don't
have the space available to download the entire network,
you also have the option to either sync to the test network or to the regression network.
We cover how to access these networks in a concept titled "Bitcoin Core Networks."
If you'd like, jump to that next for
an overview of how to get access to one of these networks.
These do come with certain limitations but
they're extremely useful depending on what your goals are.
So both of these options are better than having no access to the network.
So see if these could be a better fit in a case where you don't have available space.
Finally, while syncing to the network can take some time,
the good news is that you don't need to have
all of the data in sync before you start using the wallet.
Once you have any information to sync to your computer,
you can start exploring it for yourself.
Coming up, we'll explore our new wallet it just a little further.